So here we're looking at a working pipeline in a tool called GitLab CI/CD.
This is actually a working pipeline that at the time of this recording
was run 20 hours ago, so pretty recently.
Can you spot any stages here?
It looks like we can already.
So we've got build and we've got test, we've got analysis.
This team decided to split deploy into two different stages.
So they've got a Deploy and they've got Deploy-db and that's totally fine.
They could have even added more stages and that would have been fine.
The point is again, not to box you in,
but to help you to maintain your pipelines and
in a really understandable way for future developers.
Now, let's take a look at some of the build jobs.
Each one of these represents a job, build-backend-dev, build-frontend-dev,
build_domain, and over in the test area we've got end-to-end tests,
or e2e_tests, test the backend,
test the domain, test the frontend.
Obviously, these are test jobs and they're testing different areas.
Check_test, it concatenates are right there,
but you can see down in the tool tip below, check-test-coverage.
We can see that this is all about migrating a database,
and we're going to deploy the backend,
and we're going to deploy the frontend.
So did I make my point yet about how important these names are?
I don't need to tell you exactly what's going on,
I don't need to click into this job to try to figure out what's going on with this.
I already know, you know it too,
this is about building the backend and I'm guessing the development environment.
This is all about running domain level tests, backend level tests.
So the names are incredibly important because they
help us go straight to the place that we need to look.
Now, let's look at the code that is running this.
We'll just find our CI/CD yml file.
Now this is the code that is running the entire pipeline.
You can see here there's an include section.
This is a way that GitLab provides us to be able to include
different files so that we can split up the CI/CD configuration into different files.
You can see here stages,
these are where it is defining those stages.
I've got something here,
I'm guessing this is a reusable piece and we got some variables.
So really the meet of what we're looking at is actually in these subfiles,
these included file. So let's take a look.
There's a ci/deploy/backend and then deploy_backend_dev.
So let's take a look at that, guessing that's a file where we're going to find some jobs.
That's the ci folder then builds,
then we'll go to backend and build_backend_dev.
Now, this is something else that's interesting,
like the name here build_backend_dev,
the developers have chosen to make the names of
the files consistent with the names of the jobs.
That's incredibly helpful.
Like I'm not even a developer on this project,
I was able to come to it and go straight to the yml file that I'm looking for.
I can see here there's an image,
a docker image that I'm able to use some services.
It's going to run some scripts here before it runs the real script which is here.
We can see that it's subdividing this into three sections.
I've got three lines here, docker, docker, docker.
I guess it's only going to run on
branches and we don't want it to run on master and staging.
Basically, you don't have to understand what all is going on in GitLab CI,
and you don't have to understand this code,
but I want you to understand this is a general way that a build system
works and how it separates things into stages, jobs, and steps.